# RESTAURANT POS IN PHP
A fully functional project based on  Restaurant POS System Project which uses PHP Language with MySQL  Database. It has a number of features that will allow users to manage transactions with reports. 
# INTRODUCTION
In particular, this Restaurant POS System Project in PHP focuses mainly on managing transaction records within the  restaurant. To be more precise, the system helps to keep track of product sales. Also, the system displays all the available food items and sales reports. In addition, the system allows adding up customers too.Evidently, this project contains an admin panel with a customer panel. In an overview of this web application, a customer can simply register into the system and use its features.The customers can view food items, make orders, and payments. Additionally, the customers can view their personal expenses too. In fact, the expenses section gets counted only after successful payment. 
# ADMIN PANEL 
An administrator has full control over the system. He/she can manage customers, food items, orders, and so on. Here, each and every section has its own respective details such as name, and other important details. Here, an admin can add customer records directly by filling up the required forms. During the customer registration, an admin has to provide details such as name, contact number, and set up login credentials. With it, the administrator can also manage staff members for the system.Here, each and every staff member will have their own unique staff id. Which is automatically created by the system during the registration process.There are other functionalities too.
# PRODUCT MANAGEMENT
When it comes to projects such as the Point of Sale system, it is a must that it should contain a section to cover up products. And there is one. For this restaurant point of sale system project, the administrator can manage products easily. Not just with ease, but also it helps to cover up all the important and required information for the system. Which is directly connected to the sales section. In order to add product items, the admin has to provide a number of records. It includes the name of the food with price, description, and image. Here, each and every food item will have their own unique product code. Which is automatically created by the system while inserting a new record. Besides, the administrator can update and delete food items.
# PLACE ORDERS
Moreover, an admin, can take food orders.for the customers. Under the orders section, the system lists out all the available food items with their respective images, name, and prices. In order to place food orders, an admin has to select any of the available food items from the wide range. After selecting and placing food orders, the user has to select the customer’s name from the list and enter the quantity. By proceeding into the next step, the record is set to “not paid” by default. Which can later be updated as paid from the payment section. The main point here is that the system clearly denotes the order’s status if the payment has not been done. In fact, the recent list of orders with their respective status can be seen clearly from the admin dashboard.
# PAYMENTS AND RECEIPTS
On one hand, the user can make payments for all the pending orders. The payment section contains the list of orders which can be canceled by the administrator before completing an order’s payment. In order to proceed with payment, the user just has to select the payment method. The payment method consists of cash and PayPal. Each transaction contains a unique payment code which is obviously generated by the system. And also, it can be entered manually by the system user. The total sales report gets updated only after a successful payment transaction. With this, the administrator can have a clear view of total earnings. After completion of the payment process, the user can now view their receipts too. All the receipts are stored under the receipts section. The receipt contains all their respective order details and code. Besides, the administrator can view total successful orders and payment reports.
# AVAILBLE FEATURES
Admin Panel
<BR>
Customer Panel
<BR>
Customer Management
<BR>
Staff Management
<BR>
Product Management
<BR>
Place Food Orders
<BR>
Cancel Orders
<BR>
Payments
<BR>
Print Receipts
<BR>
Order and Payment Reports
<BR>
View Total Sales
<BR>
Check Recent Payments – Customer
<BR>
Make Orders – Customer
<BR>
View Total Expenses – Customer
# HOW TO RUN
After you finish downloading the project, unzip the project file and head over to your XAMPP directory.
<BR>
There you’ll find a folder named “htdocs”.
<BR>
Inside the “htdocs” folder, paste the project folder (not the .zip one, but the extracted one).
<BR>
Open your favorite browser; we recommend using Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox.
<BR>
Then, go to the URL “http://localhost/phpmyadmin“.
<BR>
Create a Database with a name that is provided inside the “rposystem”.
<BR>
Click on the “Import” tab and choose the database file (.sql) which is provided as “database.sql”.
<BR>
After setting up all these, go to the URL “http://localhost/[ PROJECT_FOLDER_NAME ]/“
<BR>
All the login details are provided inside the project folder, check that out and enter them in order to use it.
